---
layout: post
author: Calista Tambunan
title: Get to Know Weda Bay (Halmahera)
permalink: /weda-bay-halmahera.html
categories: journal 
---

https://imgur.com/a/Zaar8DK

Have you ever heard of Weda Bay in Maluku? It is not surprising if you are not familiar with it, because Weda Bay is a limited known submerged ocean gardens situated in Halmahera, in the region of North Maluku. Weda Bay is lately developed into world's mass media spotlight when the uncommon Walking Shark was found in this remote zone. If you’re wondering about how to get there, don’t worry: the airport of Ternate is the closest airport to the Weda Bay. There are flights from Manado, Makassar, and Jakarta to Ternate each day, and it takes somewhere in the range of 4 hours trip to the Weda Resort from Ternate utilizing speedboat.

The water temperature in this area is warm enough, around 28-30 degrees per year and visibility is about 15 meters after precipitation to 40 plus meters. Of course, you can’t miss diving in this perfect place to dive! So, we’re giving you the best dive sites in Weda Bay and its highlight, also the description details.

## HOUSE-REEF
It is the coast of Weda Resort with the quite shallow depth of 2-8 meters. It has amazing corals and fish, especially seahorses, big lobsters, and usually small black tip sharks. The visibility ranges between 1-15 meters depending on the weather conditions and the waves. But commonly there has not been too much raining or waves hit the coast.

## SHARK MOUNTAIN
This mountain has unbelievable deep seamount, approximately 32 meters (100 feet) and 11 kilometers from the closest coast. Like its name, you can find black tip, white tip, grey reef sharks and other big predatory fish are patrolling. Caused by the depth of the mountain, you only can spend a short time down there, and it is recommended for more skilled divers.

## PASIR PUTIH
Only 5 minutes from Weda Resort, Pasir Putih is a low ridge visible from the surface with white sands. The wonderful corals and fish start from the depth of 2 meters, where you can find crocodilefish, scorpionfish, lionfish, giant clams, and leopard solefish. The corals are also varied, but it is in the depth of 5 until 18 meters. Recommended for both beginners and skilled divers, with visibility ranges between 5-25 meters.

Besides diving, you should do a bird watching when you are at Weda Bay. There are variety of birds you can enjoy here such as hornbills, eagles, cockatoos, parrots, and many others. Moreover, you can take time to join a rainforest trek while you are sightseeing the birds. The best time to visit Weda Bay is March until June, because the diving is closed between June-September due to monsoon season, but you can contact the operator for further information if planning to travel around this time.

<a href="https://web.whatsapp.com/send?phone={{site.wa}}&text=Hi%20E-Nyelam,%20i%20need%20info%20for%20dive%20spot" class="cta--in--page">Need a dose of adventure? Chat with us</a>
